# U.S. Consumer Expenditure Surveys Analysis and Visualization
Consumer expenditures are always driving business and bring a chance to the nation's economy. It can also help people maintain a normal life and bring more happiness. The purpose of this project is to analyze and visualize the consumer expenditure from 2000 to 2019, study how are people spending their money and discover the different spending habits between different age groups and different races.

Data source: Datasets are from U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistic(https://www.bls.gov/cex/tables.htm), It has U.S Consumer expenditures surveys from 2000-2019, total of 18046 data points.

Key Findings:

Through this project, I find that from 2000 to 2019, the average consumer expenditure pattern in a different category almost remains the same. People still have half of the spending on housing and transportation. The actual value spending in different categories has changed a lot over time. For example, 2019 compare to 2000, the spending on healthcare has increased 151 %, this may because of the population growth and ageing, the data shows the average age for this survey is 48.2 years old in 2000, and increase to 51.6 in 2019. We can see one significant decrease in reading. It may because people spend more time on digital media, so they spending less time and money on reading. By studying the spending of different age groups, I find that people under age 25 have more spending on education, and people who are age older than 65 spending more on healthcare. The group age 45-54 has the highest purchasing ability. By study the spending of different races, I found that Asian has a lot of spending on education, which is double than other races. Black people have more spending on apparel and services than others. White people have more spending on Healthcare and Entertainment than other races. Black people spend 82% of their income, which has the highest spending rate. Asian people spend 67% of their income, which is the least spending group.
